9.1 whats-new & upgrade guide (#9298)
visgl/deck.gl: docs/whats-new.md

## deck.gl v9.1

Release date: TBD (targeting December 2024)

<table style={{border: 0}} align="center">
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <img style={{maxHeight:200}} src="https://www.w3.org/2023/02/webgpu-logos/webgpu-notext.svg" />
        <p><i>WebGPU readiness</i></p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <img style={{maxHeight:200}} src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/a3cc7c70-10a5-40c1-a5a8-d5d8b2d165ba" />
        <p><i>Aggregation Layers</i></p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <img style={{maxHeight:200}} src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/e522d961-600a-4405-9f09-c247b42f7e62" />
        <p><i>Maplibre Globe View</i></p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <img style={{maxHeight:200}} src="https://github.com/visgl/deck.gl/assets/453755/f1a10ffd-d403-4ea5-958d-3bc8fea412fe" />
        <p><i>React Widgets</i></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

### WebGPU readiness

> All layers have been migrated to UBO, which is a necessary step in order to support WebGL & WebGPU. luma.gl has been updated to v9.1. For most users this change should be transparent, but custom layers that add `uniforms` will [need to be migrated](./upgrade-guide.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- luma.gl has been updated to v9.1 which focuses on building out WebGPU support. For details see [release notes](https://luma.gl/docs/whats-new#version-91-in-development) and [upgrade-guide](https://luma.gl/docs/upgrade-guide#upgrading-to-v91).
- As part of WebGPU readiness, all shader code in deck.gl v9.1 (layers and extensions) have been migrated to use uniform buffers instead of WebGL1 style uniforms. 
- For most users this change should be transparent, but custom layers that add `uniforms` should [start migrating asap](./upgrade-guide.md) as WebGL1 style uniform support is being actively phased out.

```

        <p><i>Maplibre Globe View</i></p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <img style={{maxHeight:200}} src="https://github.com/visgl/deck.gl/assets/453755/f1a10ffd-d403-4ea5-958d-3bc8fea412fe" />
        <p><i>React Widgets</i></p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <img style={{maxHeight:200}} src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/a3cc7c70-10a5-40c1-a5a8-d5d8b2d165ba" />
        <p><i>Aggregation Layers</i></p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <img style={{maxHeight:200}} src="https://www.w3.org/2023/02/webgpu-logos/webgpu-notext.svg" />
        <p><i>WebGPU readiness</i></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

### Maplibre Globe View

MapLibre v5 recently launched a [globe view](https://github.com/maplibre/maplibre-gl-js/issues/307), and in collaboration with the MapLibre team, we have add support for seamlessly integrating deck.gl layers with the globe using the existing [GlobeView](./api-reference/core/globe-view). The integration works for all three [Intergration Modes](./developer-guide/base-maps/using-with-maplibre#integration-modes). 

### React Widgets

> deck.gl v9.0 added support for widgets, with v9.1 they can now be defined in React. A major benefit is the ablility to define custom widgets with UI built in React.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
deck.gl v9.0 added support for widgets, with v9.1 they can now be defined in React. All of our built-in widgets are now react-compatible and available from the `@deck.gl/react` package. To try it out, check out our new [getting started example](https://github.com/visgl/deck.gl/tree/master/examples/get-started/react/widgets) for widgets in React.

### Widgets Developer Guide

A major benefit of React support is the ability to define custom widgets with UI built in React in your own applications. Learn how to write your own deck.gl widgets with our new [Custom Widgets Developer Guide](./docs/developer-guide/custom-widgets).
```

## deck.gl v9.1

Release date: TBD (targeting December 2024)

<table style={{border: 0}} align="center">
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <img style={{maxHeight:200}} src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/e522d961-600a-4405-9f09-c247b42f7e62" />
        <p><i>Maplibre Globe View</i></p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <img style={{maxHeight:200}} src="https://github.com/visgl/deck.gl/assets/453755/f1a10ffd-d403-4ea5-958d-3bc8fea412fe" />
        <p><i>React Widgets</i></p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <img style={{maxHeight:200}} src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/a3cc7c70-10a5-40c1-a5a8-d5d8b2d165ba" />
        <p><i>Aggregation Layers</i></p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <img style={{maxHeight:200}} src="https://www.w3.org/2023/02/webgpu-logos/webgpu-notext.svg" />
        <p><i>WebGPU readiness</i></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

### Maplibre Globe View

> MapLibre v5 recently launched a [globe view](https://github.com/maplibre/maplibre-gl-js/issues/307), and in collaboration with the MapLibre team, we have add support for seamlessly integrating deck.gl layers with the globe using the existing [GlobeView](./api-reference/core/globe-view). The integration works for all three [Intergration Modes](./developer-guide/base-maps/using-with-maplibre#integration-modes). 

Reviewer: Can we also remove the experimental status on `_GlobeView`, and mention that here? @Pessimistress 

This looks a bit cluttered, referencing issues rather than docs etc.
```suggestion
- The deck.gl [`GlobeView`](./api-reference/core/globe-view) now integrates seamlessly with the MapLibre v5 [globe view](https://maplibre.org/roadmap/globe-view/). 
- The Maplibre globe view integration was done in close collaboration with the MapLibre team, and works for all three [Basemap Intergration Modes](./developer-guide/base-maps/using-with-maplibre#integration-modes). 
- The deck.gl `GlobeView` is no longer considered experimental, and can now be imported without a leading underscore.
```

### React Widgets

> deck.gl v9.0 added support for widgets, with v9.1 they can now be defined in React. All of our built-in widgets are now react-compatible and available from the `@deck.gl/react` package. To try it out, check out our new [getting started example](https://github.com/visgl/deck.gl/tree/master/examples/get-started/react/widgets) for widgets in React.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
deck.gl v9.0 added support for widgets, with v9.1 users can now create React components with the same level of deep deck.gl integration. 
- All the official deck.gl widgets can now be easily wrapped into React components with the new `useWidget` hook.
- Pre-wrapped React components for existing widget are available from the `@deck.gl/react` package. 
- To try it out, check out our new [getting started example](https://github.com/visgl/deck.gl/tree/master/examples/get-started/react/widgets) for using widgets in React.
```

### Widgets Developer Guide

> A major benefit of React support is the ability to define custom widgets with UI built in React in your own applications. Learn how to write your own deck.gl widgets with our new [Custom Widgets Developer Guide](./docs/developer-guide/custom-widgets).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
deck.gl v9.1 provides the ability to for applications to write React component that integrate with deck.gl using the widget interface. Learn how to write such React components with our new [Custom Widgets Developer Guide](./docs/developer-guide/custom-widgets).
```

See [upgrade guide](./upgrade-guide.md) for more details.

> ### Maplibre Globe View

Reviewer: I would lead with GlobeView and Widgets as these have much wider appeal.

See [upgrade guide](./upgrade-guide.md) for more details.

### WebGPU readiness

> - luma.gl has been updated to v9.1 which focuses on building out WebGPU support. For details see [release notes](https://luma.gl/docs/whats-new#version-91-in-development) and [upgrade-guide](https://luma.gl/docs/upgrade-guide#upgrading-to-v91).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- luma.gl has been updated to v9.1 which focuses on improved WebGPU support. For details see [release notes](https://luma.gl/docs/whats-new#version-91-in-development) and [upgrade-guide](https://luma.gl/docs/upgrade-guide#upgrading-to-v91).
```
